Narrator:
IT'S A NEW WORLD
FOR FATHERS THESE DAYS.
RULES ARE
CHANGING RAPIDLY.
- COME ON!
- TODAY, A DIFFERENT
KIND OF DAD...
MY DAD'S TAUGHT ME
EVERYTHING THERE IS FOR
A TEENAGER TO KNOW ABOUT LIFE.
Narrator:
...AND NEW FINDINGS
ABOUT FATHERS.
THERE ARE UNIQUE THINGS
THAT DADS DO WITH
THEIR CHILDREN
THAT ARE VERY VALUABLE TO THEM
AND THEIR DEVELOPMENT.
HE DOESN'T RESPOND
ON THE FIRST OR SECOND
OR THIRD REQUEST.
YOU'RE VERY SMART
TO FACE IT RIGHT NOW.
Narrator:
"BRAZELTON ON PARENTING"
( theme music playing )
A FATHER'S ROLE HAS
TRADITIONALLY BEEN
LIKE A SUPPORTING CHARACTER
IN A PLAY.
MOM HAS ALWAYS
BEEN REGARDED AS THE STAR
AND USUALLY TAKES THE BOWS
WHEN THE KIDS TURN OUT
ALL RIGHT.
BUT FOR A LONG TIME,
MEN HAVE HUNGERED FOR
A MORE IMPORTANT ROLE.
AND NEW RESEARCH
HAS SHOWN THAT FATHERS REALLY
ARE MUCH MORE CRITICAL
TO THEIR CHILDREN'S' DEVELOPMENT
THAN ANYONE EVER IMAGINED.
TODAY, WE'RE GONNA TAKE
A FRESH LOOK AT FATHERS
STARTING WITH A PORTRAIT
OF A YOUNG MAN
ON THE CUTTING-EDGE OF
THE CHANGING DEFINITION OF DAD.
Woman over PA:
On behalf of the staff,
we'd like to wish...
Brazelton:
A BIRTHDAY WITH THE EGGLESTONS
FROM COATESVILLE, PENNSYLVANIA.
Woman:
Happy Birthday, Jennay.
Brazelton:
SEVEN-YEAR-OLD JENNAY
IS THE BIRTHDAY GIRL.
THERE'S ALSO
AMBER, 17; TORY, NINE;
JEDDA,
A YEAR AND A HALF;
AND MARTY, FATHER
OF THE FOUR GIRLS.
All sing:
* HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU
* HAPPY BIRTHDAY
TO YOU... *
Brazelton:
THE EGGLESTONS ARE
A TYPICAL AMERICAN FAMILY...
WELL, ALMOST.
I PRAY THAT MY MOMMY
WILL COME BACK
- AND I PRAY THAT I'LL HAVE
A HAPPY BIRTHDAY.
- All: AMEN.
Brazelton:
THE FAMILY STORY
BEGAN IN EUROPE
WHERE MARTY SPENT YEARS
AS A PRO-BASKETBALL STAR.
Marty:
I PLAYED IN AUSTRIA,
SOUTH AMERICA,
IN URUGUAY.
I PLAYED IN POLAND
FOR FOUR YEARS.
AND, YOU KNOW,
I JUST BOUNCED ALL
OVER EUROPE
AND I ENJOYED IT.
Brazelton:
BUT THEN, A SERIOUS INJURY
WHICH SHATTERED MORE
THAN JUST A CAREER.
UNFORTUNATELY,
MY WIFE AND I SEPARATED,
AND WE JUST DECIDED
AS A COUPLE
THAT IT WOULD BE BETTER
IF THE CHILDREN
STAYED WITH ME.
- BOO-BOO, WE'RE
GOING STRAIGHT AHEAD.
- OKAY.
Brazelton:
MARTY MOVED BACK HOME
TO COATESVILLE WITH THE GIRLS.
WHAT DO
WE WANT, BOO?
Brazelton:
FOR THE LAST SIX MONTHS,
HE'S BEEN
BOTH DAD AND MOM.
- THERE WAS SOMETHING ELSE.
- YES, THERE WAS.
- WE SHOULD HAVE
WROTE IT DOWN.
- ( both laugh )
AS SOLE CAREGIVER
FOR MY KIDS,
I'VE LEARNED THAT
MY KIDS REALLY NEED ME.
LET ME
WASH YOUR FACE.
Marty:
I KNOW THAT RIGHT NOW
I HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY
AND I REALLY HAVE TO
FOCUS ON MY KIDS
IN ORDER FOR THEM
TO BE OKAY.
THAT'S NOT FUNNY.
Brazelton:
ANYONE WOULD WONDER:
CAN A MAN DO IT?
Marty:
HEY, AMBER, CAN YOU BRING ME
A DIAPER, PLEASE?
Brazelton:
WELL, THOSE WHO KNOW MARTY
THINK SO.
Alice Eggleston:
HE'S ALWAYS BEEN AN ACTIVE
FATHER WITH THE GIRLS, ALWAYS.
HE DIDN'T JUST JUMP IN
AND IT HAPPENED.
HE'S BEEN DOING IT
ALL ALONG,
AND I THINK THAT MAKES IT
A LOT EASIER
FOR THE TRANSITION
OF THE GIRLS.
( singing )
Marty:
I HAVEN'T REALLY
CHANGED ANYTHING.
I'VE ONLY ADDED
TO WHAT I WAS ALREADY DOING.
I'M MUCH MORE
INVOLVED IN THEIR LIFE.
DADDY, HOW DO YOU
ROLL THE NAPKINS?
Brazelton:
MARTY HAS A GAME PLAN.
Marty:
I REALLY STRESS
TEAM SPIRIT AT MY HOUSE.
- Jedda: HELLO!
- HELLO.
PLAYING WITH EACH OTHER'S TOYS
OR SHARING A SKIRT
OR WHATEVER THE CASE
MAY BE.
Brazelton:
THE RESULT:
WONDERFUL GIRLS.
- DADDY.
- YES.
Amber:
DAD DOES A LOT
OF STUFF AROUND HERE.
WE JUST GOTTA
HELP HIM OUT.
WE HAVE TO COOPERATE.
YOU KNOW, YOU HAVE TO
TELL EACH OTHER,
YOU KNOW,
"PICK UP YOUR COAT.
PUT YOUR SHOES AWAY.
MAKE SURE YOUR BAG'S PUT AWAY.
DO YOUR HOMEWORK."
I'M KNOWN AS
"MOUTH ALMIGHTY."
OKAY, WELL, BE KNOWN
AS "GIVE ME YOUR PLATE"
AND LET'S EAT.
Jennay:
HE'S A NORMAL DAD,
BUT HE'S THE ONLY PARENT
I HAVE RIGHT NOW.
SO I NEED
TO HELP HIM OUT
A LOT MORE
THAN NORMAL.
Brazelton:
IT HASN'T BEEN EASY
FOR MARTY OR THE KIDS,
BUT MARTY'S HAD
THE SUPPORT OF HIS FAITH
AND HIS FAMILY
AND THE STRONG ROLE MODEL
OF HIS OWN FATHER,
A BAPTIST PASTOR.
Marty:
MY DAD HAS TAUGHT ME
A LOT OF THINGS:
RESPECT, DISCIPLINE.
AND NOW THOSE THINGS ARE
HELPING ME TO RAISE MY KIDS.
Marty:
GIVE PAPA A KISS
AND LET'S GO BYE-BYE.
Gradis Eggleston Jr:
MARTY CAME FROM A HOME
WHERE LOVE WAS
FIRST PRIORITY.
AND HE COULD NOT
LEAVE THAT STRUCTURE
AND TAKE
ANY OTHER AVENUE
BUT THE ONE THAT HAD BEEN
INSTILLED WITHIN HIM.
Brazelton:
MARTY SHARED HIS LESSONS
WITH OTHERS.
HE RUNS
"FATHERS' INITIATIVE,"
A SOURCE OF SUPPORT
FOR DADS IN THE COMMUNITY.
Marty:
I CAME HERE...
WE'RE GONNA GO
SEE THE BABIES.
...JUST TO KINDA
ADD TO MY OWN SKILLS
AND LEARN SOME
FATHERING TECHNIQUES
AND I FELL IN LOVE
WITH IT.
YOU DON'T WANNA GET
CHANNELED INTO THAT
POLICEMAN ROLE
WITH YOUR KIDS.
AND SO IT'S OUR JOB
NOT TO BULLY THEM,
AND NOT TO SAY,
"HEY, YOU CAN'T DO THAT.
YOU CAN'T DO THAT,"
- BUT TO GUIDE THEM.
- A LOT OF PEOPLE THINK
THAT AS FATHERS, AS MEN,
WE DON'T WANNA BE BOTHERED
WITH THEM.
- RIGHT.
- AND THEY'RE WRONG.
IT'S NATURAL
TO BE ABLE TO CARE.
I MEAN, WE HAVE THOSE
INSTINCTS THAT ARE BUILT
WITHIN JUST LIKE MOMS DO.
BUT WE HAVE TO STEP UP
AND MAKE SURE WE TAKE
OUR POSITION
IN THE LIVES OF OUR CHILDREN
AND NOT TAKE THAT BACK SEAT.
SO WHAT WE NEED TO DO
IS UNDERSTAND
THAT WE HAVE TO
BE THERE FOR THEM.
YOU KNOW, SOMETHING THAT YOU
TELL YOUR SON RIGHT NOW
OR TELL YOUR DAUGHTER
RIGHT NOW WILL LAST LONGER
THAN ANYTHING ELSE.
WHOA, LET DADDY
HELP YOU, OKAY, MISS LADY?
Brazelton:
MARTY'S BIGGEST CHALLENGE?
I THINK IT'S DIFFICULT FOR HIM
TO UNDERSTAND GIRLS BECAUSE
HE'S NOT A GIRL.
- WHO IS THAT?
- Jedda: DADDY!
- IT'S DADDY.
- AH!
Marty:
ALL THESE VARIOUS THINGS
THAT COME UP FOR GIRLS...
LET'S GET
SOME MACARONI.
...I'VE ACTUALLY HAD TO LEARN
AS THEY COME ALONG.
JUST A LOT OF
LITTLE GIRL THINGS...
DAD, I GOT THE BOOK!
...THAT USUALLY DADS
DON'T DEAL WITH.  I JUST
KIND OF TAKE THEM IN STRIDE.
I DO ASK MY MOM.
I ASK OTHER WOMEN.
I READ BOOKS.
AND SO I TRY TO BE
AS HELPFUL AND AS OPEN
AS POSSIBLE.
- DADDY!
- YES.
MY DAD'S TAUGHT ME JUST ABOUT
EVERYTHING THERE IS
FOR A TEENAGER
TO KNOW ABOUT LIFE.
- WEE!
- ( screams )
Amber:
IT DOESN'T MATTER
IF WE'RE FALLING OFF A BIKE
OR WHETHER THERE'S
A SCHOOL PROBLEM.
YOU KNOW,
HE'S ALWAYS THERE
TO HANDLE THE SITUATION FOR US.
Brazelton:
IT'S ONLY BEEN
A FEW MONTHS,
BUT YOU KNOW,
IT SEEMS TO BE WORKING.
Marty:
BEING A PARENT,
YOU KNOW, IS A JOB
THAT I SIGNED ON FOR.
AND WHEN I SIGNED ON,
I SIGNED FOR THE DURATION.
- DADDY!
- THERE WE GO.
WE ARE
A WINNING TEAM.
JOINING ME TODAY
IS CRYSTAL HOLMES,
OUR INTERNET EXPERT
FROM I.B.M.
YOU KNOW, CRYSTAL,
FATHERS WANT TO BE
MORE INVOLVED TODAY.
IS THERE ANY HELP FOR THEM
ON THE INTERNET?
BERRY, THERE'S A LOT
OF VALUABLE INFORMATION
ON THE INTERNET
FOR FATHERS WHO
MAY BE EXPERIENCING MANY
DIFFERENT ROLES AS A FATHER.
PERHAPS THERE ARE
FATHERS THAT ARE
STAYING AT HOME WITH THE KIDS
WHILE MOM GOES TO WORK,
OR FATHERS THAT ARE TAKING CARE
OF NEW STEPCHILDREN,
OR JUST NEW DADS.
ONE SITE IS THE NATIONAL
FATHERHOOD INITIATIVE.
AND HERE, FATHERS CAN
GET ON THE SITE, BROWSE IT.
THEY CAN ACTUALLY
SEE TIPS FOR FATHERS.
AND THERE'S
ANOTHER SITE WE'LL LOOK AT
THAT I THINK IS VERY USEFUL.
IT'S THE NATIONAL CENTER
FOR FATHERING.
AND HERE THERE'S A CHAT ROOM
AND THERE'RE BULLETIN BOARDS
AND LINKS.
AND THE REAL VALUE
IS THE ABILITY
TO CONNECT
TO OTHER FATHERS
THAT MAY BE GOING
THROUGH THE SAME PARENTING
EXPERIENCES THAT YOU ARE.
YOU CAN READ
WHAT THEY'RE GOING THROUGH.
YOU CAN ACTUALLY
POST YOUR ISSUES
AND SEE IF THERE'S
SOMETHING THAT YOU'VE
DONE WONDERFULLY.
I THINK THE INTERNET CAN
BE A VALUABLE RESOURCE
JUST TO SHARE EXPERIENCES
AND TO SEE IF WE CAN LEARN
FROM EACH OTHER.
BERRY, OUR INTERNET
QUESTION TODAY
COMES FROM VICTOR IN
SANTA ROSA, CALIFORNIA.
HIS QUESTION IS,
"I LOVE SPENDING TIME
WITH MY DAUGHTER, TAYLOR.
HOWEVER, WHENEVER MY WIFE
COMES INTO THE ROOM
TAYLOR, OUR ONE-YEAR-OLD,
SEEMS TO FORGET THAT
I'M EVEN AROUND.
IF GINA, MY WIFE,
LEAVES THE ROOM,
TAYLOR CRIES
AND BECOMES ANXIOUS.
HOW CAN I STRENGTHEN THE BOND
I HAVE WITH MY DAUGHTER
SO THAT SHE FEELS
CONFIDENT WITH ME, TOO?"
I LOVE THE FACT THAT YOU'RE
ASKING THAT QUESTION
AND IT SHOWS HOW MUCH
YOU WANT HER TO TURN TO YOU.
AND SHE WILL
SOONER OR LATER
BECAUSE EVERY TIME
YOU HAVE A CHANCE TO BE
WITH HER ALONE
AND GET RESPONSES
FROM HER,
YOU'RE PUTTING THEM
IN THE BANK FOR THE FUTURE.
SOONER OR LATER
SHE'LL TURN TO YOU
JUST LIKE SHE HAS
TO YOUR WIFE.
Brazelton:
FOR MORE RESOURCES,
VISIT US ONLINE AT...
"
PRESENTED BY
THE PARENTING INSTITUTE
AT pampers.com.
DR. KYLE PRUETT,
PROFESSOR OF PSYCHIATRY
AT THE YALE CHILD
STUDIES CENTER
HAS BEEN STUDYING FATHERS
AND THEIR EFFECT
ON CHILDREN
FOR A LONG TIME.
KYLE, YOU KNOW,
WE KEEP HEARING THAT
MOTHERS HAVE
SOMETHING SPECIAL
TO OFFER KIDS.
AND IT PUTS FATHERS,
IT SEEMS TO ME,
AT A VERY BIG
DISADVANTAGE.
DO YOU THINK THERE'S A WAY
TO MAKE UP FOR THAT
IN FATHERS' MINDS?
I THINK THAT ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT I'M TRYING TO DO
WITH MY OWN WORK
HAS BEEN TO TELL
FATHERS THEY TOO HAVE
SOMETHING QUITE SPECIAL.
WE NOW KNOW THAT
THERE ARE UNIQUE,
IDIOSYNCRATIC THINGS
THAT DADS DO WITH
THEIR CHILDREN
THAT ARE VERY VALUABLE TO THEM
AND THEIR DEVELOPMENT.
THEY PLAY WITH THEIR CHILDREN
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENTLY.
THEY HOLD THEM
AND WHAT'S INTERESTING
IS THAT WE NOW KNOW THAT
THE BABIES RESPOND TO THAT.
BABIES SIX WEEKS OLD
ARE ALREADY ADJUSTING
THEIR BODIES
TO BE HELD BY FATHERS
AS OPPOSED TO BEING
HELD BY MOTHERS.
FOR EXAMPLE,
FATHERS,
WHEN THEY'RE WITH A BABY
THAT'S FUSSY,
THEY TEND NOT
TO HOLD THEM CLOSER.
THEY TEND TO CHANGE
THEIR POSITION AROUND,
SHOW THEM
SOMETHING IN THE WORLD,
HOLD THEM UPRIGHT.
AND THEY KIND OF TAKE
THEM INTO THE WORLD
RATHER THAN OUT OF THE WORLD
TO FIGURE OUT WHAT'S WRONG.
THEY USE THE WORLD
AROUND THEM A SLIGHTLY
DIFFERENT WAY THAN MOTHERS.
- FASCINATING.
- FOR SOME BABIES, OF COURSE,
THAT CAN BE JUST THE TICKET.
FOR OTHER BABIES,
THAT MAY NOT BE
JUST THE TICKET.
THEY MAY NEED
THAT HOLD, THAT CLOSENESS
AND THAT TOUCH.
DOES A FATHER THEN
PICK THAT UP AND ADJUST
TO IT, DO YOU THINK?
YES, THEY DO.
THERE'S INTERESTING RESEARCH
THAT SAYS THE PHYSIOLOGIC
RESPONSE OF A FATHER
TO A CRYING BABY
IS IDENTICAL
TO THE PHYSIOLOGIC RESPONSE
OF A MOTHER TO A CRYING BABY
IF YOU GIVE THE FATHER
THE CHANCE TO SORT OF
BE THERE AND RESPOND.
IN OTHER WORDS,
YOU NEED TO BACK UP
A FATHER FOR HIS ROLE...
- VERY MUCH SO.
- ...AND GIVE HIM PERMISSION.
SUPPOSE HE RUNS INTO
WHAT I CALL "GATE-KEEPING."
THE MOTHER SAYS,
"OH, YOU'RE NOT
DOING IT RIGHT.
THIS IS THE WAY
WE DO IT, DEAR."
- WHAT HAPPENS?
- THERE'S A GATE
AROUND EVERY MOTHER.
AND IT'S CULTURAL,
AND IT SAYS,
"THIS IS YOUR JOB
AND YOU BETTER NOT
MESS IT UP.
IT'S ONE OF THE MOST
IMPORTANT THINGS
YOU'LL EVER DO."
SO IT'S HARD FOR A MOTHER,
PARTICULARLY A NEW MOTHER,
TO SHARE THE NURTURING DOMAIN
WITH HER SPOUSE.
AND YET, IT'LL BE
A WONDERFUL THING
FOR HER DOWN THE ROAD
IF SHE DOES.
CHILDREN WITH
INVOLVED FATHERS
STAY IN SCHOOL LONGER.
THEY HAVE LESS TO DO WITH
THE JUVENILE JUSTICE SYSTEM.
AND WHEN THEY MARRY,
THEY TEND TO STAY
MARRIED LONGER.
I HEAR ALSO THEY'RE NOT
AS OPEN TO PEER PRESSURE.
THE HAVE AN INNER SENSE
OF SORT OF COMPETENCE
THAT ALLOWS THEM TO BE
A LITTLE LESS MANIPULATABLE.
KYLE, WHAT ARE SOME THINGS
THAT THE FATHERS
CAN DO TO STAY CLOSE
TO THEIR KIDS?
WELL, FIRST OF ALL,
IT'S NEVER TOO LATE.
BE PRESENT.
TAKE YOUR TURN WITH
THE NIGHTTIME FEEDINGS,
THE GETTING UPS.
TAKE YOUR TURN
AT THE DIAPERING TABLE.
AS YOUR CHILD GETS OLDER,
MAKE SURE THAT YOU STAY
IN THEIR LIFE.
ADOLESCENCE--
A TIME, BERRY,
WHEN A LOT OF FATHERS
BACK AWAY BECAUSE
THEY'RE NOT SURE.
I'M HERE TO TELL YOU,
DON'T BACK AWAY.
IF THERE WAS EVER A TIME
THEY NEEDED YOU, IT IS NOW.
THEY NEED YOUR STRENGTH,
YOUR AUTHORITY.
HOW ABOUT SPECIAL TIMES
WE KEEP HEARING ABOUT,
- YOU KNOW,
QUALITY TIME?
- I KNOW WE DO, BERRY.
CHILDREN ARE RAISED
IN ORDINARY TIME, BERRY.
YOU TAUGHT ME THAT
AND I WANNA REMIND YOU
THAT YOU TAUGHT ME THAT.
NOT QUALITY TIME.
QUALITY TIME IS A MYTH
BECAUSE OUR CHILDREN
MAY NOT BE READY WHEN WE ARE
AND WE MAY NOT BE READY
WHEN OUR CHILDREN ARE.
SO IT HAS TO BE REGULAR.
THAT'S NOT TO SAY
THAT SPECIAL TIME
WITH YOUR CHILD CAN'T
BE WONDERFUL,
BUT IT SHOULDN'T BE
THE ONLY KIND OF TIME
YOU HAVE WITH YOUR CHILD.
Brazelton:
NEXT, WE TALK TO PARENTS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
Woman:
WE'VE SOLD OUT.
WE HAVE OVER 900 PEOPLE.
Brazelton:
EACH YEAR WE TRAVEL
ALL OVER AMERICA...
Man:
OUR COMMUNITY IS
SO EXCITED ABOUT THIS.
Brazelton:
...TO ANSWER QUESTIONS
FROM THOUSANDS OF PARENTS.
Man:
I'D LIKE TO WELCOME
DR. T. BERRY BRAZELTON.
Brazelton:
HERE ARE SOME OF THEM.
- Brazelton:
WOW, THAT'S GREAT.
- THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS MIKE.
I HAVE TWO CHILDREN.
MY OLDEST IS 12
AND I BELIEVE HE'S
GIVEN ME A PREVIEW
ON WHAT IT'S LIKE
TO CARE FOR A TEENAGER.
IT SEEMS AS THOUGH WHEN I ASK
HIM TO DO SOMETHING
OR I NEED HIM TO DO
A FAVOR OR GO DO SOMETHING,
HE DOESN'T RESPOND
ON THE FIRST OR SECOND
OR THIRD REQUEST.
- YEAH.
- IT'S USUALLY
THE FOURTH AND BEYOND,
AND IT'S CRACKING MY PATIENCE,
IT REALLY IS.
AND I'M LOOKING FOR IDEAS
IN TRYING TO REGAIN
WHAT I USED TO HAVE
WHEN HE WAS HALF THAT AGE,
WHERE IT TOOK
ONE OR TWO REQUESTS
AND THE TASK GOT DONE.
WELL, YOU KNOW
WHAT I THINK YOU'RE
GOING THROUGH
IS SEPARATION ISSUES.
IT'S REALLY HARD TO GIVE UP
THAT LITTLE BOY
- THAT YOU WERE SO CLOSE TO
AT SIX, WASN'T IT?
- OH YES.
AND NOW THAT
HE'S 12 AND YOU FEEL
SO TURNED AGAINST...
- MM-HMM.
- ...BY THIS KIND
OF BEHAVIOR,
- YOU FEEL LIKE YOU'RE
HAVING TO GIVE HIM UP.
- RIGHT.
AND IT FRIGHTENS YOU
BECAUSE YOU DON'T KNOW
WHAT YOU'RE GONNA DO
TO TRY TO GET HIM BACK
OR GET ANGRY WITH HIM
OR WHATEVER.
- PROBABLY VIOLENT EMOTIONS
COME UP, DON'T THEY?
- YES.
- YEAH.
- ( chuckles )
AND I THINK THIS IS
WHAT A TEENAGER DOES
TO A PARENT
- IN THE SERVICE
OF BECOMING INDEPENDENT.
- MM-HMM.
WHAT YOU'D LIKE TO DO
IS GIVE THAT 12-YEAR-OLD
A SENSE THAT YOU'RE STILL
RIGHT WITH HIM,
THAT YOU TRUST HIM,
THAT WHEN YOU SAY SOMETHING
REALLY MEANING IT,
YOU KNOW
HE'S GONNA DO IT.
AND I WOULD BE CAREFUL
TO USE IT JUST FOR
IMPORTANT THINGS
SO YOU DON'T SET OFF
THIS NEGATIVISM
ANY OTHER TIME.
AND GIVE HIM
BACK A FEELING THAT YOU
STILL FEEL CLOSE TO HIM.
AND I'D SURE FIND SOME TIMES
TO BE CLOSE TO HIM ALONE.
THAT MEANS NOT GOING
WITH YOUR WIFE
OR WITH THE OTHER CHILD,
BUT WITH HIM,
AND FINDING OUT
WHAT'S ON HIS MIND
WITHOUT BEING INTRUSIVE,
BUT LETTING HIM KNOW
WHAT IT WAS LIKE FOR YOU
AT THE AGE
OF 15 OR 16
BECAUSE 12-YEAR-OLDS
TODAY ARE MORE LIKE
15- OR 16-YEAR-OLDS
- IN THE OLD DAYS.
- THAT'S VERY TRUE.
AND SO I WOULD
REALLY WORK ON IT.
I THINK YOU'RE VERY SMART
TO FACE IT RIGHT NOW
'CAUSE YOU GOT SOME
TOUGH TIMES AHEAD--
HE DOES TOO.
- SO HE NEEDS YOU.
( chuckles )
- GREAT.
- THANK YOU.
HI, MY DAUGHTER IS THREE
AND MY HUSBAND TRAVELS
QUITE A BIT FOR WORK.
I WORK FULL TIME.
WE DON'T HAVE LOCAL FAMILY.
AND HE WAS ALWAYS
VERY VERY INVOLVED,
PARTICULARLY WHEN SHE
WAS BORN AND I HAD TO
GO BACK TO SCHOOL.
HE TOOK PATERNITY LEAVE
FOR A WHILE, SPENT A LOT
OF TIME WITH HER.
- WONDERFUL.
- AND WHEN HE'S IN TOWN,
HE TRIES TO SCHEDULE
CALLS IN THE EVENING
SO HE CAN COME HOME.
AND EVEN IF HE CAN'T
MAKE IT FOR DINNER,
TO BE THERE
WHEN SHE GOES TO BED
OR THAT KIND OF THING.
REALLY VERY INVOLVED.
SO WHAT SHE DOES
WHEN HE'S AWAY--
THERE'S A LOT
OF "I WANT DADDY.
I JUST WANT DADDY.
I DON'T WANT YOU.
I WANT DADDY."
AND SOMETIMES IT'S PURELY
ANOTHER TACTIC FOR CONTROL.
BUT SOMETIMES I THINK
THERE'S SOMETHING TRULY THERE.
AND WE'VE ALWAYS
WORRIED ABOUT IT EVEN
BEFORE SHE EXPRESSED THAT.
FROM BEFORE SHE
COULD EVEN UNDERSTAND,
WHEN SHE WAS A BABY
WHENEVER HE WOULD
GO AWAY, HE WOULD SAY
TO HER, "I'M GOING ON A TRIP
- AND I'LL BE BACK
ON FRIDAY--
- GREAT.
--OR I'LL BE BACK
ON THURSDAY."
SO SHE DOESN'T KNOW
WHICH DAYS COME WHEN.
BUT SHE KNOWS
IF TODAY IS THAT DAY
THAT HE'S COMING HOME.
REALLY? SHE'S ALREADY
DEVELOPED A SENSE OF TIME
WHICH IS REALLY REMARKABLE,
ISN'T IT?
YES, SHE HAS.
BUT THIS IS HER FOCUS.
SHE'S VERY INTERESTED IN DAYS
'CAUSE ON CERTAIN DAYS
DADDY COMES HOME.
YOU MIGHT MAKE A CALENDAR
IN WHICH EACH DAY
SHE CAN
PUT A CROSS IN IT.
YOU KNOW, HELP HER
WITH THIS SENSE OF TIME.
AND THEN ANOTHER THING
I WOULD SUGGEST IS MAKE
SOME VIDEOTAPES.
AND HE READS HER
A BEDTIME STORY
FOR EACH DAY
THAT HE'S GONE.
AND YOU PLAY IT
AND BOTH YOU SIT THERE
AND MOURN.
( all laughing )
- WELL, WE DO THAT.
- 'CAUSE YOU'RE MOURNING TOO.
WELL, THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS
I'LL SAY TO HER WHEN
SHE SAYS TO ME,
"I WANT DADDY."
I SAY, "WELL, I WANT
DADDY TOO.
NOW WE NEED TO PUT YOUR SHOES
ON AND GO TO PRESCHOOL."
BUT BOTH OF YOU
ARE MOURNING,
AND I'LL BET HE IS.
I'LL BE HE'S MOURNING
AT THE OTHER END.
SHE SAYS, "I WANT DADDY."
AND THEN WHEN HE TELEPHONES,
SHE WON'T ACTUALLY TALK
TO HIM ON THE PHONE.
SHE'LL TALK TO HIM ON HER
BANANA PHONE IN THE CAR.
AND SHE'LL SHOW HIM
THE BANANA ON THE PHONE.
BUT SHE'LL TALK
INTO THE BANANA.
I THINK SHE DOESN'T WANNA RISK
TALKING TO HIM IF HE DOESN'T SAY
WHAT SHE WANTS HIM TO SAY.
I'M NOT SURE WHAT'S
GOING ON THERE.
YES, YOU ARE.
WHAT IS IT?
IT'S TOO PAINFUL.
AND SHE MISSES HIM
TOO MUCH TO WANT TO
HEAR HIS VOICE.
AND SO SHE CAN
TALK TO HIM WHEN
IT'S JUST PLAY-ACTING,
OR WHEN
IT'S IN FANTASY.
BUT THE REALITY
COMES TOO CLOSE.
I HOPE HE KNOWS THAT.
- I DON'T KNOW IF HE DOES.
- WELL, YOU TELL HIM.
HE'D BETTER KNOW IT.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER THINGS
I CAN DO TO HELP HER BESIDES--
- I MEAN, THIS BEDTIME STORY--
- I THINK IT SOUNDS LIKE
YOU'RE DOING A LOT,
PREPARING HER AHEAD OF TIME.
I LOVE THE FACT THAT HE TELLS
HER WHEN HE'S GOING.
A LOT OF PARENTS
WON'T DO THAT
BECAUSE IT'S SO PAINFUL
FOR THEM TO LEAVE.
AND SO THEY DON'T
PREPARE THE CHILD
AND THEY DON'T DO
ANOTHER THING:
WHEN THEY GET HOME SAY,
"REMEMBER I TOLD YOU I WAS
COMING ON THIS DAY
AND HERE I AM."
BUT IT ALL SOUNDS LIKE
YOU'RE HANDLING IT VERY WELL.
IT'S VERY TOUGH
THESE DAYS.
BUT VIDEOTAPES HELP,
WHEN SHE CAN SEE HIM
AND HE CAN SING TO HER
OR READ TO HER.
- OKAY, WE'LL TRY THAT.
- GREAT.
- THANK YOU.
- OKAY.
FOR TAPES AND TRANSCRIPTS
CALL 1-888-847-1220.
OR LOG ON AT
www.onparenting.net.
PRESENTED BY
THE PARENTING INSTITUTE
AT pampers.com.
I HOPE YOU'VE SEEN
HOW IMPORTANT
FATHERS ARE IN
THE LIVES OF THEIR CHILDREN.
AND I HOPE YOU COME
TO APPRECIATE
HOW MEN
FROM EVERY GENERATION
WANT SO MUCH TO BE CLOSE
TO THEIR SONS
AND DAUGHTERS.
FATHERS ROLES ARE CHANGING,
I THINK FOR THE BETTER.
IT'S UP TO ALL OF US,
MOTHERS AND FATHERS
TO SUPPORT THAT CHANGE.
FATHERS HAVE TO JUMP IN
AND MOTHERS HAVE
TO LET THEM IN.
BECAUSE IN THE END
A MORE COMMITTED FATHER
MEANS A MORE
COMMITTED FAMILY.
( theme music playing )